# Uphold

Schrödinger's Backup: *"The condition of any backup is unknown until a restore is attempted"*

So you're backing up your databases, but are you regularly checking that the backups are actually useable? Uphold will help you automatically test them by downloading the backup, decompressing, loading and then running programmatic tests against it that you define to make sure they really have what you need.

### Prerequisites

* Backups
* Docker (>= v1.3.*)

### Installation

Most of the installation goes around configuring the tool, you must create the following directory structure on the machine you want to run Uphold on...

    /etc/uphold/
    /etc/uphold/conf.d/
    /etc/uphold/engines/
    /etc/uphold/transports/
    /etc/uphold/tests/

### Configuration

Create a global config in `/etc/uphold/uphold.yml` (even if you leave it empty), the settings inside are...

* `docker_url` (default: `unix:///var/run/docker.sock`)
  * If you connect to Docker via a TCP socket instead of a Unix one, then you would supply `tcp://example.com:5422` instead.
* `docker_container` (default: `uphold`)
  * If you need to customize the docker container and use a different one, you can override it here
* `docker_tag` (default: `latest`)
  * Can override the Docker container tag if you want to run from a specific version
* `docker_mounts` (default: `none`)
  * If your backups exist on the host machine, the folders they exist in need to be mounted into the container. You can specify them here as a YAML array of directories. They will be mounted at the same location inside the container

#### `uphold.yml` Example

    docker_url: unix:///var/run/docker.sock
    docker_container: uphold
    docker_tag: latest
    docker_mounts:
      - /var/my_backups
      - /var/my_other_backups

#### `/etc/uphold/conf.d` Example

Each config is in YAML format, and is constructed of a transport, an engine and tests. In your `/etc/uphold/conf.d` directory simply create as many YAML files as you need, one per backup.

    enabled: true
    name: s3-mongo
    engine:
      type: mongodb
      settings:
        database: your_collection
    transport:
      type: s3
      settings:
        region: us-west-2
        access_key_id: your-access-key-id
        secret_access_key: your-secret-access-key
        bucket: your-backups
        path: mongodb/systemx/{date}
        filename: mongodb.tar
        date_format: '%Y.%m.%d'
        date_offset: 0
        folder_within: mongodb/databases/MongoDB
    tests:
      - test_structure.rb
      - test_data_integrity.rb

* `enabled`
  * `true` or `false`, allows you to disable a config if needs be
* `name`
  * Just so that if it's referenced anywhere, you have a nicer name

See the sections below for how to configure Engines, Transports and Tests.

#### Transports

Transports are how you retrieve the backup file itself. They are also responsible for decompressing the file, the code supports nested compression (compressed files within compressed files). Currently implemented transports are...

* S3
* Local file

Custom transports can also be loaded at runtime if they are placed in `/etc/uphold/transports`. If you need extra rubygems installed you will need to create a new Dockerfile with the base set to Uphold and then override the Gemfile.

##### Generic Transport Parameters

Transports all inherit these generic parameters...

* `path`
  * This is the path to the folder that the backup is inside, if it contains a date replace it with `{date}`, eg. `/var/backups/2016-01-21` would be `/var/backups/{date}`
* `filename`
  * The filename of the backup file, if it contains a date replace it with `{date}`, eg. `mongodb-2016-01-21.tar` would be `mongodb-{date}.tar`
* `date_format` (default: `%Y-%m-%d`)
  * If your filename or path contains a date, supply it's format here
* `date_offset` (default: `0`)
  * When using dates the code starts at `Date.today` and then subtracts this number, so for checking a backup that exists for yesterday, you would enter `1`
* `folder_within`
  * Once your backup has been decompressed it may have folders inside, if so, you need to provide where the last directory is, this generally can't be programmatically found as some database backups may contain folders in their own structure

##### S3 (type: `s3`)

The S3 transport allows you to pull your backup files from a bucket in S3. It has it's own extra settings...

* `region`
  * Provide the region that your S3 bucket resides in (eg. `us-west-2`)
* `access_key_id`
  * AWS access key that has privileges to read from the specified bucket
* `secret_access_key`
  * AWS secret access key that has privileges to read from the specified bucket

Paths do not need to be complete with S3, as it provides globbing capability. So if you had a path like this...

    my-service-backups/mongodb/2016.01.21.00.36.03/mongodb.tar

Theres no realistic way for us to re-create that date, so you would do this instead...

    path: my-service-backups/mongodb/{date}
    filename: mongodb.tar
    date_format: '%Y.%m.%d'

As the `path` is sent to the S3 API as a prefix, it will match all folders, the code then picks the first one it matches correctly. So be aware that not being specific enough with the `date_format` could cause the wrong backup to be tested.

###### S3 Transport Example

    transport:
      type: s3
      settings:
        region: us-west-2
        access_key_id: your-access-key-id
        secret_access_key: your-secret-access-key
        bucket: your-backups
        path: mongodb/systemx/{date}
        filename: mongodb.tar
        date_format: '%Y.%m.%d'
        date_offset: 0
        folder_within: mongodb/databases/MongoDB

##### Local File (type: `local`)

The local transport allows you to pull your backup files from the same machine that is running the Docker container. Be aware, since this code runs within a container you will need to add the volume that contains the backup when starting up. We auto-mount `/var/uphold` to the same place within the container to reduce confusion.

It has no extra parameters and only uses the generic ones, `filename`, `path` and `folder_within`

###### Local File Example

    transport:
      type: local
      settings:
        path: /var/uphold/mongodb
        filename: mongodb.tar
        folder_within: mongodb/databases/MongoDB

#### Engines

Engines are used to load the backup that was retrieved by the transport into the database. Databases are started inside fresh docker containers each time so no installation is required. Currently supported databases are...

* MongoDB

Custom engines can also be loaded at runtime if they are placed in `/etc/uphold/engines`

##### Generic Parameters

Engines all inherit these generic parameters, but are usually significantly easier to configure when compared to transports...

* `type`
  * The name of the engine class you want to use (eg. `mongodb`)
* `database`
  * The name of the database you want to recover, as your backup may contain multiple
* `port`
  * The port number that the database will run on (engine will provide a sane default)
* `docker_image`
  * The name of the Docker container (engine will provide a sane default)
* `docker_tag`
  * The tag of the Docker container (engine will provide a sane default)

##### MongoDB (type: `mongodb`)

Unless you need to change any of the defaults, a standard configuration for MongoDB will look quite small. Obviously in MongoDB databases are called collections, however you provide the collection name as the database.

    engine:
      type: mongodb
      settings:
        database: your_collection_name

###### Full MongoDB Engine Example

    engine:
      type: mongodb
      settings:
        database: your_collection_name
        docker_image: mongo
        docker_tag: 3.2.1
        port: 27017

#### Tests

Tests are the final step in configuration. They are how you validate that the data contained within your backup is really what you want, and that your backup is operating correctly. Tests are written in Ruby using Minitest, this gives you the most flexibility in writing tests programmatically as it supports both Unit & Spec tests. To configure a test you simply provide an array of ruby files you want to run...

    tests:
      - test_structure.rb
      - test_data_integrity.rb

Tests should be placed within the `/etc/uphold/tests` directory, all files inside will be volume mounted into the container so if you need extra files they are available to you.

##### Example Test

We need to establish a connection to the database, and the values will not be known in advance. So they will be provided to you by environmental variables `UPHOLD_IP` and `UPHOLD_PORT`. You must use these when connecting to your database. The database name will also be called `uphold` once loaded.

    require 'minitest/autorun'
    require 'mongoid'

    class TestClients < Minitest::Test
      Mongo::Logger.logger.level = Logger::FATAL
      @@mongo = Mongo::Client.new("mongodb://#{ENV['UPHOLD_IP']}:#{ENV['UPHOLD_PORT']}/uphold")

      def test_that_we_can_talk_to_mongo
        assert_equal 1, @@mongo.collections.count
      end
    end

Obviously this is just a simple test, but you can write any number of tests you like. All must pass in order for the backup to be considered 'good'.

### Development

To aid with development there is a helper script in the root directory called `build_and_run` and `build_and_inspect` which will build or inspect the Dockerfile and then run it using some default options. Since otherwise testing is a bit of a nightmare when trying to talk to containers on your local machine. Various folders from within the project directory will be auto-mounted into the container...

* `dev/uphold.yml` -> `/etc/uphold/uphold.yml`
* `dev/conf.d` -> `/etc/uphold/conf.d`
* `dev/tests` -> `/etc/uphold/tests`
* `dev/custom/engines` -> `/etc/uphold/engines`
* `dev/custom/transports` -> `/etc/uphold/transports`
* `dev/blobs` -> `/var/backups`

Remember to place a `development.yml` config of your own in the `dev/config` directory.
